---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Review of 2023
date: 2023-10-04T14:11:28.310Z
author: Vinay Venu
description: >-
featuredpost: true
featuredimage: 
tags:
---

Happy New Year to you !!!

As we reflect on the past year, we are excited to share the progress that has shaped Avni. Your feedback and engagement have been instrumental in guiding our efforts, and we are proud to present the highlights of the advancements made in the latest annual update.

## Impact numbers
Here is a quick view of the numbers.

- New beneficiaries added: 580,000
- Total number of beneficiaries: 3.2 million
- New users added: 11,000
- Total users till date: 21,000

## Capability

### Security
A major milestone in 2023 was the completion of a security audit for Avni. This was required for two reasons. First, to be able to implement Avni in government data centers as required, and the second to have a third party audit the software. At the time of this writing, two independent security audits have taken place for different projects. There is one implementation. 

Several features were implemented to pass the security audit. Important changes include upgrades to underlying libraries and implementation of access control. 

### Scale
There have been several changes that were introduced to handle scale in Avni. The below mentioned features allow handling scale on Avni today. 

#### Dedicated Hosting
In order to enable scale on some projects, some implementations have opted for dedicated infrastructure. Dedicated infrastructure provides the ability to scale out resources and improve stability of the application because of lesser number of changes. Right now, three implementations are either on dedicated hosting, or are on their way. 

Remember that dedicated scaling makes sense only when there are at least 1000 field users. A smaller number will make it economically infeasible.

#### Whitelabeling
There is now the capability to whitelabel new apps on the Playstore. While implementations that run on dedicated hosting need a whitelabeled app, others can opt to have one as well. On the playstore, we now have Avni, Teach AP, Teach NL and Sakhi 2.0. There is a new app being created for the Rejuvenating Water Bodies project that is expected to scale up this year.

### Features
Other than the changes mentioned above, Avni now integrates with Glific (for communication to beneficiaries via Whatsapp), allows bulk assignment of subjects to a user, provides ability to add filters on custom dashboards, and has a new Media Viewer application that lets you see all media of your project at a single place. There have also been minor changes in the app including moving to app bundles (to reduce the size of app updates), draft encounters (for long encounter forms), improvements to the external API including the ability to handle media and immutable encounters for forms that are only ever updated every time.

### Stability
The primary focus of this year was stability. Over the course of the past 5 years, several new features were added to Avni. The diverse feature set, different use cases, some mandatory upgrades and the accumulation of data over several years created stability issues in the application. The primary issues that we were trying to tackle this year were
1. Upgrade of libraries in the Android application. We had not performed this activity for about four years, and this was the last responsible time to perform the upgrade.
2. Moving of organisations from the old style. We had moved to using the app designer to using the new rules in 2020. Migrating existing organisations to this new format required time and effort. At this point, there are only two more organisations that have to move to the new format. 
3. Using ETL for reports. With data that keeps getting added into the Avni database, even simple reports started getting slower. The ETL application was an experiment we started in March 2022 to make reports faster. It works by moving data of each organisation into its own schema, and structuring the data that is easier to use for reports. However, the only way this would work was if we rewrite all reports that we had written until now to use the new format. There were around 1500 reports that need to be migrated. Since 2022, we have been trying to move many reports. 
4. Automation. An increase in the need to monitor several details of the application, significant time has been spent on automation activities. Tests, apk generation and deployment have been the primary areas of deployment in the past year.   


The team spent approximately one third of its time stabilizing the application. We understand many of these changes have led to disruption on the field and slow-down of development of new features and hope that the changes in 2022 will allow us to move faster this year.

## Ecosystem

With the increase in the number of implementations and the limited size of the team, it is often hard to continuously keep in touch with all implementations. The Avni conference was started in 2023 to alleviate this in part. Specific objectives included
1. NGOs using Avni understand the size, capability and working structure of the team
2. The Avni team understands specific problems faced by NGOs, figure out any commonalities and plan to resolve them
3. Everyone understands the product roadmap for the year

The 2023 conference was well received. The decision we made last year was to hold the conference once a year. We are running the conference this year as well, where we get a chance to meet our NGOs in person, decide on 


- New projects - AKRSP, Mobile Creche, Teach Nagaland, Chashma, IPH, Uninhibited
- Bahmni outreach - ThoughtWorks
- Self-supported implementations - Swadhar 
- C4GT
- Sprints started

Swadhar is a community led implementation where the core Avni team provides only consultancy support while the implementation is designed and implemented by people outside. This provides the team to have more implementations than what our own team can handle by ourselves.

ThoughtWorks integrated Avni into Bahmni - an open-source hospital information system in order to integrate the flow of information between primary hospitals and outposts. This is currently being piloted in a few Health and Wellness centres in and around Bangalore. Click [here](https://bahmni.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/BAH/pages/3238625296/Bahmni+Outreach+App+for+Community+Healthcare+Offline+ready) for more information.


## Challenges
- Developer capacity
- Handling change requests
- Application stability
- Long-pending housekeeping work
- Operational costs


### Team changes
New members - 


### Financials
- SaaS Revenue : ₹25,95,280
- Revenue from projects : ₹1,00,51,277
- Grants raised : ₹25,00,000
- Expenses : ₹1,58,64,712
- Sustainability : 95.47%


As we close the chapter on this year, we want to express our commitment to ensuring the security and privacy of your data. The latest update includes robust security enhancements, implementing the latest encryption standards and reinforcing our commitment to protecting your information.

Looking ahead, we are excited to share a glimpse of our roadmap for the upcoming year. Our team is actively exploring emerging technologies, and we have ambitious plans to introduce cutting-edge features that will further elevate your experience with our software.

We appreciate your ongoing support and collaboration in making our software a vital tool for your needs. As we continue to evolve, your feedback will remain central to our development process.

Thank you for being part of our journey, and we look forward to another year of innovation and growth together.
